Welcome back. As promised,
you'll see how everything
fits together now.
You will start by
building a cost function,
and then you will
use gradient descent
to optimize this cost function.
Let's take a look
at how this works.
To compute the cost,
begin by preparing
the data in batches.
Here you have the questions,
what is your age and
how old are you?
You can see these are duplicates,
because they mean the same thing.
Can you see me and
are you seeing me?
Are also duplicates.
Where are thou and where are you?
Are duplicates too. As are,
when is the game and
what time is the game?
So with four pairs,
you have batch size of four.
Here we will use the letter
b to stand for batch size.
Something that's
very important to
note is that each question has
its corresponding duplicate
to the left or right of it.
That is, in each row all of
the sentences in the
columns are duplicates.
But you will notice
that each question
has no duplicates
above or below it.
That is, for any column,
none of the rows in those
column contain a sentence that
is a duplicate of another
sentence in those column.
So this is how you
prepare the batches.
Now, let me show you how you will
want to organize the
data in this way.
Given the first batch,
you're going to run it
through this model to get
a vector v_1 with dimensions
one row by five columns.
The number of columns
shown in this matrix
is equal to the dimension
of your embedding layer,
which in this case is five.
I'll refer to this dimension
of the embedding layer
as d model for each
question in the batch.
I haven't talked
about the dimension
of the embedding layer yet,
but don't worry, it will become
more clear once you're
working with the code.
The important takeaway
is that the dimension
of the embedding, the model,
is a parameter that
determines the dimensions
of the weights through
each layer in the model,
and thus determines the
size of the outputs vector.
The model is running
a batch size that is
greater than one.
So the v_1 outputs is
actually a matrix of
stacked vectors like this.
In this visual example,
there are four rows
in this matrix to
indicate that there are four
observations in this batch.
The batch size is four.
Our subscript to observations in
the batch as v_1_1, v_1_2,
and so on corresponding to
the vector outputs for each
question in the batch.
You'll do the same thing for
the batch of v_2 vectors.
Each question in the batch 1 is
a duplicate of its corresponding
question in batch 2.
But none of the
questions in batch
1 are duplicates of each other.
The same applies to batch 2.
Here, for example, v_1_1
is a duplicate of v_2_1,
as are the rest of the
respective row pairs.
But v_1_1 is not a duplicates
of any other rows in v_1.
The last step is to combine
the two branches of
the Siamese network by
calculating the
similarity between
all vector pair combinations
of v_1 with v_2.
For this example with
a batch size of four,
you might get a matrix of
similarities that
looks like this.
The diagonal is a
key feature here.
These values are the
similarities for
all your positive examples,
the question duplicates.
Notice that all the
values are generally
greater than the numbers
in the off diagonals.
So the model is performing as you
would expect for
duplicates questions,
because you would expect that
the question duplicates to have
higher similarity compared
to the non-duplicates.
In the upper right
and lower left,
you have the similarities for
all the negative examples.
These are the results for
the non-duplicates pairs.
Notice that most of
these numbers are lower
than the similarities that's
are along the diagonal.
Also notice that you can
have negative example
question pairs that still
have a similarity
greater than zero.
The range of similarity
ranges from negative
1 to positive 1,
but there isn't any
special requirements
that a similarity
greater than zero
indicates duplicates
or that's a similarity
less than zero indicates
non-duplicates.
What's matters for a
properly functioning model
is that it generally
finds that duplicates have
a higher similarity
relative to non-duplicates.
Creating non-duplicates
pairs like this removes
the need for additional
non-duplicate examples
and the input data,
which turns out to be a big deal.
Instead of needing to sets up
specific batches with
negative examples,
your model can learn from them in
the existing question
duplicates batches.
Now, you can just
stop here and use
these similarities with
the triplet loss function
you already know shown here.
Then the overall costs for
your Siamese network
will be the sum of
these individual losses
over the training sets.
Here you can see that
superscripts i refers to
a specific training example
and there are m observations,
but there are more techniques
available that's can
vastly improve upon
model performance.
I'll show you those next.